"the effect was that of a cyclopean city of no architecture known to man or to human imagination with vast aggregations of nightblack masonry embodying monstrous perversions of geometrical laws and attaining the most grotesque extremes of sinister bizarrerie."
"the village seemed very old eaten away at the edge like the moon which had commenced to wane"
"these are the nameless larvae of the other gods and like them are blind and without mind and possessed of singular hungers and thirsts."
"Wherefore do ye toil is it not that ye may live and be happy And if ye toil only that ye my toil more when shall happiness find you Ye toil to live but is not life made of beauty and song And if ye suffer no singers among you where shall be the fruits of your toil Toil without song is like a weary journey without an end. Were not death more pleasing"
"He was told how childish and limited is the notion of a tridimensional world and what an infinity of directions there are besides the known directions of updown forwardbackward rightleft. He was shown the smallness and tinsel emptiness of the little Earth gods with their petty human interests and connetions their hatreds rages loves and vanities their craving for praise and sacrifice and their demands for faith contrary to reason and Nature."
"Hieroglyphics had covered the walls and pillars and from some undetermined point below had come a voice that was not a voice a chaotic sensation which only fancy could transmute into sound but which he attempted to render by the almost unpronounceable jumble of letters Cthulhu fhtagn."
"his appearance was that of the typical denizen of the Catskill Mountain region one of those strange repellent scions of a primitive colonial peasant stock whose isolation for nearly three centuries in the hilly fastnesses of a littletravelled countryside has caused them to sink to a kind of barbaric degeneracy rather than advance with their more fortunately placed brethren of the thickly settled districts."
"At the present time he was a man of perhaps fortyfive years of age short and heavyset with a bulletshaped head that rested on broad apelike shoulders. His thick torso and bulging paunch were supported by a pair of spindly legs that contrasted oddly with the upper portions of his beefy body."
"Who knows the end What has risen may sink and what has sunk may rise."
"But did it ever occur to you my friend that force and matter are merely the barriers to perception imposed by time and space"
"That is not dead which can eternal lie And with strange aeons even death may die."
"It is an unfortunate fact that the bulk of humanity is too limited in its mental vision to weigh with patience and intelligence those isolated phenomena seen and felt only by a psychologically sensitive few which lie outside its common experience. Men of broader intellect know that there is no sharp distinction betwixt the real and the unreal that all things appear as they do only by virtue of the delicate individual physical and mental media through which we are made conscious of them but the prosaic materialism of the majority condemns as madness the flashes of supersight which penetrate the common veil of obvious empiricism."
"We may guess that in dreams life matter and vitality as the earth knows such things are not necessarily constant and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them. Sometimes I believe that this less material life is our truer life and that our vain presence on the terraqueous globe is itself the secondary or merely virtual phenomenon."
"I say alone for one who sits by a sleeper is indeed alone perhaps more alone than he can realise."
"Then suddenly I saw it. With only a slight churning to mark its rise to the surface the thing slid into view above the dark waters. Vast Polyphemuslike and loathsome it darted like a stupendous monster of nightmares to the monolith about which it flung its gigantic scaly arms the while it bowed its hideous head and gave vent to certain measured sounds. I think I went mad then."
"Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn."
"Our apprehensions were over what we might find or fail to find at the end of our journey for silence continued to answer all calls despatched to the camp."
"Then came upon an incredible essay by Lafcadio Hearn something entitled Gaki detailing the curious Japanese belief that insects are really demons or the ghosts of evil men."
"nascent lifeless earth out of cosmic spacetheir"
"Then the germ of panic seemed to spread among the seekers. It was one thing to chase the nameless entity but quite another to find it. Spells might be all rightbut suppose they weren't"
"Once in a while though he could not help seeing how shallow fickle and meaningless all human aspirations are and how emptily our real impulses contrast with those pompous ideals we profess to hold."
"Mr. Hoadley disappeared soon after delivering this sermon but the text printed in Springfield is still extant."
"Then the resplendent aura of my brother of light drew near and held colloquy with me soul to soul with silent and perfect interchange of thought. The hour was one of approaching triumph for was not my fellowbeing escaping at last from a degrading periodic bondage escaping forever and preparing to follow the accursed oppressor even unto the uttermost fields of ether that upon it might be wrought a flaming cosmic vengeance which would shake the spheres"
"are vocal qualities peculiar to men and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts and it is terrible to hear the one when the source should yield the other."
"It cannot be described this awesome chain of events that depopulated the whole Earth the range is too tremendous for any to picture of encompass. Of the people of Earth's unfortunate ages billions of years before only a few prophets and madman could have conceived that which was to come could have grasped visions of the still dead lands and longempty sea-beds. The rest would have doubted... doubted alike the shadow of change upon the planet and the shadow of doom upon the race. For man has always thought himself the immortal master of natural things..."
"The most merciful thing in the world I think is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents."
"I bade my host adieu and took a train for San Francisco. In less than a month I was in Dunedin"
"Looking desultorily about, his attention had been drawn by a dull glimmering on one of the tables and he had extricated the queer orblike stone from its shadowy crowded position between an ugly little Aztec idol the fossil egg of a dinornis and an obscene fetish of black wood from the Niger."
"I should not have ventured out that night for the taint of thunder was in the clouds"
"Our means of receiving impressions are absurdly few and our notions of surrounding objects infinitely narrow. We see things only as we are constructed to see them and can gain no idea of their absolute nature. With five feeble senses we pretend to comprehend the boundlessly complex cosmos yet other beings with wider stronger or different range of senses might not only see very differently the things we see but might see and study whole worlds of matter energy and life which lie close at hand yet can never be detected with the senses we have."
"Free of all responsibility or restraint in the sheer obliviousness of dreams he had lived like a happy pagan and now he must go back to the drear existence of a mediaeval monk beneath the prompting of an obscure sense of duty."
"despaired of any rest or contentment in a world grown too busy for beauty and too shrewd for dreams"
"Nahum did not send her to the county asylum but let her wander about the house as long as she was harmless to herself and others. Even when her expression changed he did nothing. But when the boys grew afraid of her and Thaddeus nearly fainted at the way she made faces at him he decided to keep her locked in the attic."
"These little debates are known as flamewars."
"On the barren shore and on the lofty ice barrier in the background myriads of grotesque penguins squawked and flapped their fins while many fat seals were visible on the water swimming or sprawling across large cakes of slowly drifting ice."
"The daemon wind died down and the bloated fungoid moon sank reddeningly in the west."
"but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality and of our frightful position therein that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age."
"His money and lands were gone and he did not care for the ways of people about him but preferred to dream and write of his dreams. What he wrote was laughed at by those to whom he shewed it so that after a time he kept his writings to himself"
"And behind it all I saw the ineffable malignity of primordial necromancy black and amorphous and fumbling greedily after me in the darkness to choke out the spirit that had dared to mock it by emulation."
"I have frequently wondered if the majority of mankind ever pause to reflect upon the occasionally titanic significance of dreams and of the obscure world to which they belong."
"Ciertos toques aqui y alla eran vagos indicios de simbolos y estimulos latentes que si hubiesemos tenido otro trasfondo mental y emocional y un sistema sensorial totalmente diferente habrian tenido un profundo significado para nosotros."
"that in which young Wilcox had had his strange visitations."
"Masson disliked and respected the ferocious little rodents for he knew the danger that lurked in their flashing needlesharp fangs"
"Fully ten feet high despite a shambling crouching attitude expressive of infinite cosmic malignancy a monstrosity of unbelievable horror was shewn starting forward from a Cyclopean ivory throne covered with grotesque carvings. From my experience I cannot doubt but that man when lost to terrestrial consciousness is indeed sojourning in another and uncorporeal life of far different nature from the life we know and of which only the slightest and most indistinct memories linger after waking. From those blurred and fragmentary memories we may infer much yet prove little. We may guess that in dreams life matter and vitality as the earth knows such things are not necessarily constant and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them. Sometimes I believe that this less material life is our truer life and that our vain presence on the terraqueous globe is itself the secondary or merely virtual phenomenon."
"seemed instinct with a fearsome and unnatural malignancy was of a somewhat bloated corpulence and squatted evilly on a rectangular block or pedestal covered with undecipherable characters."
"It was morning when I saw it but shadow lurked always there. The trees grew too thickly and their trunks were too big for any healthy New England wood. There was too much silence in the dim alleys between them and the floor was too soft with the dank moss and mattings of infinite years of decay."
"Ia! ShubNiggurath! The Black Goat of the Woods with a Thousand Young!"
"I don't believe that there is any fourth dimension and I emphatically do not believe in Tao."
"Heaven knows where I'll end up it's a safe bet I'll never be at the top of anything! Nor do I particularly care to be."
"They were the makers and enslavers of that life and above all doubt the originals of the fiendish elder myths"
"coruscations"
"The harvest is past the summer is ended and we are not saved."
"Horror and the unknown or the strange are always closely connected so that it is hard to create a convincing picture of shattered natural law or cosmic alienage or outsideness without laying stress on the emotion of fear."
"Of such great powers or beings there may be conceivably a survival... a survival of a hugely remote period when... consciousness was manifested perhaps in shapes and forms long since withdrawn before the tide of advancing humanity... forms of which poetry and legend alone have caught a flying memory and called them gods monsters mythical beings of all sorts and kinds... Algernon Blackwood"
"I sank nearly to the lichened earth transfixed with a dread not of this nor any world but only of the mad spaces between the stars."
"My fear again waned low since a natural phenomenon tends to dispel broodings over the unknown."
"The Thing of the idols the green sticky spawn of the stars had awaked to claim his own. The stars were right again and what an ageold cult had failed to do by design a band of innocent sailors had done by accident. After vigintillions of years great Cthulhu was loose again and ravening for delight."
"This man bore no resemblance to the bearded grizzled Akeley of the snapshot but was a younger and more urban person fashionably dressed and wearing only a small dark moustache."
"God!...If only I had not read so much Egyptology before coming to this land which is the fountain of all darkness and terror!"
"The cloudless day is richer at its close;A golden glory settles on the lea;Soft, stealing shadows hint of cool reposeTo mellowing landscape, and to calming sea.And in that nobler, gentler, lovelier light,The soul to sweeter, loftier bliss inclines;Freed form the noonday glare, the favour'd sightIncreasing grace in earth and sky divines.But ere the purest radiance crowns the green,Or fairest lustre fills th' expectant grove,The twilight thickens, and the fleeting sceneLeaves but a hallow'd memory of love!"
"Still, it's a nice, cynical book for those who like atrocity scenes-starving prisoners forced to eat their girlfriends, etc."
"By the Ram with a Thousand Ewes! By the Tail of Dagon and the Horns of Derceto! said Azedarac, as he fingered the tiny, pot-bellied vial of vermilion liquid on the table before him. Something will have to be done with this pestilential Brother Ambrose."
"this very morning, an hour agone, he has mounted his white ass for the return journey to Vyones."
"So talked a while with Sarr about his cats-the usual subject of conversation, especially because, now that summer's coming, they're bringing in dead things every night. Field mice, moles, shrews, birds, even a little garter snake. They don't eat them, just lay them out on the porch for the Poroths to see-sort of an offering, I guess."
"the phantom of the burning house faded, I found myself screaming and struggling madly in the arms of two men, one of whom was the spy who had followed me to the tomb. Rain was pouring down in torrents, and upon the southern horizon were flashes of the lightning that had so lately passed over our heads. My"
"Men of broader intellect know that there is no sharp distinction betwixt the real and the unreal; that all things appear as they do only by virtue of the delicate individual physical and mental media through which we are made conscious of them; but the prosaic materialism of the majority condemns as madness the flashes of super-sight which penetrate the common veil of obvious empiricism."
"Again there was silence-a silence as of consummated Evil brooding above its unnamable triumph."
"In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming."
"rude cross lay flat upon the barren earth and on it was bound a man-half-naked, wild of aspect with his corded limbs, glaring eyes and shock of tangled hair. His executioners were Roman soldiers, and with heavy hammers they prepared to pin the victim's hands and feet to the wood with iron spikes."
"One night I had a frightful dream in which I met my grandmother under the sea. She lived in a phosphorescent palace of many terraces, with gardens of strange leprous corals and grotesque brachiate efflorescences, and welcomed me with a warmth that may have been sardonic. She had changed - as those who take to the water change - and told me she had never died. Instead, she had gone to a spot her dead son had learned about, and had leaped to a realm whose wonders - destined for him as well - he had spurned with a smoking pistol. This was to be my realm, too - I could not escape it. I would never die, but would live with those who had lived since before man ever walked the earth."
"And because mere walls and windows must soon drive to madness a man who dreams and reads much, the dweller in that room used night after night to lean out and peer aloft to glimpse some fragment of things beyond the waking world and the greyness of tall cities. After years he began to call the slow-sailing stars by name, and to follow them in fancy when they glided regretfully out of sight; till at length his vision opened to many secret vistas whose existence no common eye suspects. And one night a mighty gulf was bridged, and the dream-haunted skies swelled down to the lonely watcher's window to merge with the close air of his room and make him a part of their fabulous wonder."
"Her laughter was like sweet deadly venom."
"It was a godless sound; one of those low-keyed, insidious outrages of Nature which are not meant to be. To call it a dull wail, a doom-dragged whine, or a hopeless howl of chorused anguish and stricken flesh without mind would be to miss its most quintessential loathsomeness and soul-sickening overtones."
"he never spoke save in the debased patois of his environment;"
"You drug me, and then ask me to walk! Frank, you're as unreasonable as an artist."
"For I, despite all you can say, and despite all I sometimes try to say to myself, know that loathsome outside influences must be lurking there in the half-unknown hills-and that those influences have spies and emissaries in the world of men."
"Ulrich the Axe, famed for his bloody deeds among Christians and pagans alike."
"Without warning, I heard the heavy door behind me creak slowly open upon its rusted hinges."
"His solid flesh had never been away,For each dawn found him in his usual place,But every night his spirit loved to raceThrough gulfs and worlds remotefrom common day.He had seen Yaddith, yet retained his mind,And come back safely from the Ghooric zone,When one still night across curved space was thrownThat beckoning piping from the voids behind.He waked that morning as an older man,And nothing since has looked the same to him.Objects around float nebulous and dim-
False, phantom trifles of some vaster plan.His folk and friends are now an alien throngTo which he struggles vainly to belong."
"I said, I try to open my mail at least once a year, but sometimes I neglect it."
"we had allowed ourselves to become distracted on the way to the Crusade, never laid eyes on a Turk, turned to pillage and rapine among the Hungarians and Greeks in order to reach the East...all for the glory of God, of course, until defeated,"
"I read odd books and entertained odd ideas (however furtively), largely ignored by my family; and at that age I was looking hard for someone to follow, a mentor of any sort, who would take me under his wing and recognize my special talents (assuming that I had any) and tell me the secret of how everything worked, so I could avoid pain. And there you were."
"several of our company told of ghosts, one, how a man had been slain on the way to the wars, but had not known it, his ghost going on, thinking himself alive, performing deeds of great valor, even returning home in triumph where he bought lands, begot sons, and lived in contentment for many years before discovering one day, by chance, that he was already dead."
"I dream of a day when they may rise above the billows to drag down in their reeking talons the remnants of puny, war-exhausted mankind-of a day when the land shall sink, and the dark ocean floor shall ascend amidst universal pandemonium."
"when I glanced at the moon it seemed to quiver as though mirrored in unquiet waters."
"For those who relish speculation regarding the future, the tale of supernatural horror provides an interesting field."
"... Atal felt a spectral change in the air, as if the laws of earth were bowing to greater laws..."
"His pretence to profound and obscure scholarship, his blundering ventures in stilted and laboured pseudo-humour, and his often vitriolic outbursts of critical prejudice must all be recognised and forgiven. Beyond and above them, and dwarfing them to insignificance, was a master's vision of the terror that stalks about and within us, and the worm that writhes and slavers in the hideously close abyss. Penetrating to every festering horror in the gaily painted mockery called existence, and in the solemn masquerade called human thought and feelings that vision had power to project itself in blackly magical crystallisations and transmutations; till there bloomed in the sterile America of the 'thirties and 'forties such a moon-nourished garden of gorgeous poison fungi as not even the nether slope of Saturn might boast."
"They were large, even for the mus decumanus, which sometimes measures fifteen inches in length,"
"It had been so long abandoned that the rats scurrying on their errands spared me no more than occasional glances of annoyance."
"thirst had driven him into the desert again"
"The priest was dead. Nevertheless, he sat at table with us as we feasted on cold meats."
"Certainly, we were in one of the strangest, weirdest, and most terrible of all the corners of earth's globe."
"It was dismal sitting there on rickety boxes in the pitchy darkness, but we smoked pipes and occasionally flashed our pocket lamps about."
"The Thing cannot be described-there is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy, such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order. A mountain walked or stumbled."
"And yet amid that tense godless calm the high bare boughs of all the trees in the yard were moving. They were twitching morbidly and spasmodically, clawing in convulsive and epileptic madness at the moonlit clouds; scratching impotently in the noxious air as if jerked by some allied and bodiless line of linkage with subterrene horrors writhing and struggling below the black roots."
"Art has been wrecked by a complete consciousness of the universe which shews that the world is to each man only a rubbish-heap limned by his individual perception. It will be saved, if at all, by the next and last step of disillusion; the realisation that complete consciousness and truth are themselves valueless, and that to acquire any genuine artistic titillation we must artificially invent limitations of consciousness and feign a pattern of life common to all mankind--most naturally the simple old pattern which ancient and groping tradition first gave us."
"And now at last the Earth was dead. The final pitiful survivor had perished. All the teeming billions; the slow aeons; the empires and civilizations of mankind were summed up in this poor twisted form-and how titanically meaningless it had all been! Now indeed had come an end and climax to all the efforts of humanity-how monstrous and incredible a climax in the eyes of those poor complacent fools in the prosperous days! Not ever again would the planet know the thunderous tramping of human millions-or even the crawling of lizards and the buzz of insects, for they, too, had gone. Now was come the reign of sapless branches and endless fields of tough grasses. Earth, like its cold, imperturbable moon, was given over to silence and blackness forever. The stars whirled on; the whole careless plan would continue for infinities unknown. This trivial end of a negligible episode mattered not to distant nebulae or to suns newborn, flourishing, and dying. The race of man, too puny and momentary to have a real function or purpose, was as if it had never existed. To such a conclusion the aeons of its farcically toilsome evolution had led."
"From my experience I cannot doubt but that man, when lost to terrestrial consciousness, is indeed sojourning in another and uncorporeal life of far different nature from the life we know; and of which only the slightest and most indistinct memories linger after waking."
"That is not dead which can eternal lie, And with strange aeons death may die."
"all which is forgotten need not necessarily be dead"
"BEYOND THE WALL OF SLEEP, by H. P. Lovecraft I have often wondered if the majority of mankind ever pause to reflect upon the occasionally titanic significance of dreams, and of the obscure world to which they belong. Whilst the greater number of our nocturnal visions are perhaps no more than faint and fantastic reflections of our waking experiences-Freud to the contrary with his puerile symbolism-there are still a certain remainder whose immundane and ethereal character permit of no ordinary interpretation, and whose vaguely exciting and disquieting effect suggests possible minute glimpses into a sphere of mental existence no less important than physical life, yet separated from that life by an all but impassable barrier. From my experience I cannot doubt but that man, when lost to terrestrial consciousness, is indeed sojourning in another and uncorporeal life of far different nature from the life we know, and of which only the slightest and most indistinct memories linger after waking. From those blurred and fragmentary memories we may infer much, yet prove little. We may guess that in dreams life, matter, and vitality, as the earth knows such things, are not necessarily constant; and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them. Sometimes I believe that this less material life is our truer life, and that our vain presence on the terraqueous globe is itself the secondary or merely virtual phenomenon."
"Was tempted to quote Walden-Why should I feel lonely? Is not our planet in the Milky Way?-but refrained. How can I get lonely, I asked, when there's still so much to read?"
"The square-paned windows were coated with a thick, dewlike moisture"
"You cannot oppose what you cannot see or feel. You cannot oppose the thousand-dimensional. Suppose they should eat their way to us through space!"
"I shall plan my cousin's escape from that Canton mad-house, and together we shall go to marvel-shadowed Innsmouth. We shall swim out to that brooding reef in the sea and dive down through black abysses to Cyclopean and many-columned Y'ha-nthlei, and in that lair of the Deep Ones we shall dwell amidst wonder and glory for ever."
"I now saw plainly that this foul emanation could have no admixture or connection whatsoever with the clean air of the Libyan Desert, but must be essentially a thing vomited from sinister gulfs still lower down."
"Vast, Polyphemus-like, and loathsome, it darted like a stupendous monster of nightmares to the monolith, about which it flung its gigantic scaly arms, the while it bowed its hideous head and gave vent to certain measured sounds. I think I went mad then."
"the while shouting his determination to reach some 'big, big cabin with brightness in the roof and walls and floor, and the loud queer music far away'. As two men of moderate size sought to restrain him, he had struggled with maniacal force and fury, screaming of his desire and need to find and kill a certain 'thing that shines and shakes and laughs'."
"It is absurd to say that mathematicians have not discovered the fourth dimension."
"Hippopotami should not have human hands and carry torches...men should not have the heads of crocodiles..."
"Whitman Press will publish three children's textbooks, based on your creed, for which you'll deliver manuscripts and artwork. The three books are: 1. Dagon and Jill 2. The Shadow Over Humpty Dumpty 3. A Children's Necronomicon (with pop-up section)"
"There was a formula-a sort of list of things to say and do-which I recognised as something black and forbidden; something which I had read of before in furtive paragraphs of mixed abhorrence and fascination penned by those strange ancient delvers into the universe's guarded secrets whose decaying texts I loved to absorb."
"It is absolutely necessary, for the peace and safety of mankind, that some of earth's dark, dead corners and unplumbed depths be let alone"
"Sheehan's Pool Room, which adorns one of the lesser alleys in the heart of Chicago's stockyard district, is not a nice place. Its air, freighted with a thousand odours such as Coleridge may have found at Cologne, too seldom knows the purifying rays of the sun; but fights for space with the acrid fumes of unnumbered cheap cigars and cigarettes which dangle from the coarse lips of unnumbered human animals that haunt the place day and night."
"He was sunk beneath seas of silence; and his name, which would once have caught his notice above the howling of a storm, had become and empty sound."
"the geometry of the place was all wrong. One could not be sure that the sea and the ground were horizontal"
"My youngest boy went mad. He sits drooling on the porch, trying to play the cat like an accordion. He's been scratched some."
"Think not that delight and understanding dwell just across the Karthian hills, or in any spot thou canst find in a day's, or a year's, or a lustrum's journey."
"Ye have done much to bring about the indescribable return. May ye go mad quickly and not be devoured."
"This man, a vagabond, hunter, and trapper, had always been strange in the eyes of his primitive associates."
"Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn."
"All the birds had flown away, save only the great, grotesque penguins."
"Only a cynic can create horror--for behind every masterpiece of the sort must reside a driving demonic force that despises the human race and its illusions, and longs to pull them to pieces and mock them."
"scientific study and reflection had taught us that the known universe of three dimensions embraces the merest fraction of the whole cosmos of substance and energy."
"It's hard to have done all one's growing up since 33 - but that's a damn sight better than not growing up at all."
"This was no fruit of such worlds and suns as shine on the telescopes and photographic plates of our observatories. This was no breath from the skies whose motions and dimensions our astronomers measure or deem too vast to measure. It was just a colour out of space - a frightful messenger from unformed realms of infinity beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open before our frenzied eyes."
"Reasonable readers would have accepted my book about ghouls as a work of fiction, but such readers are rare, and most condemned it as a hoax. Even worse, totally unreasonable readers took it for a scientific treatise."
"Chronophagos, the Devourer of Time, the Eater of Hours. What man remembereth even the hour of his death if the Chronophagos hath devoured it? -Nicephoros Attaliades, The Testament of Nightmares"
"We are all roamers of vast spaces and travelers in many ages."
"There are not many persons who know what wonders are opened to them in the stories and visions of their youth; for when as children we listen and dream, we think but half-formed thoughts, and when as men we try to remember, we are dulled and prosaic with the poison of life."
"They worshipped, so they said, the Great Old Ones who lived ages before there were any men, and who came to the young world out of the sky. Those Old Ones were gone now, inside the earth and under the sea; but their dead bodies had told their secrets in dreams to the first men, who formed a cult which had never died."
"As to what the things were-explanations naturally varied. The common name applied to them was "those ones," or "the old ones," though other terms had a local and transient use. Perhaps the bulk of the Puritan settlers set them down bluntly as familiars of the devil, and made them a basis of awed theological speculation."
"Transferring in haste, I felt a curious breathlessness as the cars rumbled on through the early afternoon sunlight into territories I had always read of but had never before visited. I knew I was entering an altogether older-fashioned and more primitive New England than the mechanised, urbanised coastal and southern areas where all my life had been spent; an unspoiled, ancestral New England without the foreigners and factory-smoke, billboards and concrete roads, of the sections which modernity has touched. There would be odd survivals of that continuous native life whose deep roots make it the one authentic outgrowth of the landscape--the continuous native life which keeps alive strange ancient memories, and fertilises the soil for shadowy, marvellous, and seldom-mentioned beliefs."
"For Arthur Munroe was dead. And on what remained of his chewed and gouged head there was no longer a face."
"the rats inevitably dragged away the whole cadaver through the hole they gnawed in the coffin."
"Poor devils! After all, they were not evil things of their kind. They were the men of another age and another order of being. Nature had played a hellish jest on them-as it will on any others that human madness, callousness, or cruelty may hereafter drag up in that hideously dead or sleeping polar waste-and this was their tragic homecoming."
"As she read on, her surroundings gradually faded, and soon there lay about her only the mists of dream; the purple, star-strown mists beyond Time, where only gods and dreamers walk."
"And as I stood there looking in terror, the wind blew out both the candles in that ancient peaked garret, leaving me in savage and impenetrable darkness with chaos and pandemonium before me, and the demon madness of that night-baying viol behind me."
"What we did see-for the mists were indeed all too malignly thinned-was something altogether different, and immeasurably more hideous and detestable. It was the utter, objective embodiment of the fantastic novelist's thing that should not be"
"I have said that I dwelt apart from the visible world, but I have not said that I dwelt alone. This no human creature may do; for lacking the fellowship of the living, he inevitably draws upon the companionship of things that are not, or are no longer, living."
"And even in the open air the stench of whiskey was appalling. To this fiendish poison, I am certain, the greater part of the squalor I saw is due. Many of these vermin were obviously not foreigners-I counted at least five American countenances in which a certain vanished decency half showed through the red whiskey bloating. Then I reflected upon the power of wine, and marveled how self-respecting persons can imbibe such stuff, or permit it to be served upon their tables. It is the deadliest enemy with which humanity is faced. Not all the European wars could produce a tenth of the havock occasioned among men by the wretched fluid which responsible governments allow to be sold openly. Looking upon that mob of sodden brutes, my mind's eye pictured a scene of different kind; a table bedecked with spotless linen and glistening silver, surrounded by gentlemen immaculate in evening attire-and in the reddening faces of those gentlemen I could trace the same lines which appeared in full development of the beasts of the crowd. Truly, the effects of liquor are universal, and the shamelessness of man unbounded. How can reform be wrought in the crowd, when supposedly respectable boards groan beneath the goblets of rare old vintages? Is mankind asleep, that its enemy is thus entertained as a bosom friend? But a week or two ago, at a parade held in honour of the returning Rhode Island National Guard, the Chief Executive of this State, Mr. Robert Livingston Beeckman, prominent in New York, Newport, and Providence society, appeared in such an intoxicated condition that he could scarce guide his mount, or retain his seat in the saddle, and he the guardian of the liberties and interests of that Colony carved by the faith, hope, and labour of Roger Williams from the wilderness of savage New-England! I am perhaps an extremist on the subject of prohibition, but I can see no justification whatsoever for the tolerance of such a degrading demon as drink."
"When you can hear a spider walk across the floor, you know it's time to keep your socks on. Thank God for insecticide."
"God! What wonder that across the earth a great architect went mad"
"Bear in mind closely that I did not see any actual visual horror at the end."
"Johansen, thank God, did not know quite all, even though he saw the city and the Thing, but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space, and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream beneath the sea, known and favoured by a nightmare cult ready and eager to loose them upon the world whenever another earthquake shall heave their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air."
"Warped and bigoted with preconceived illusions of justice, freedom, and consistency, they cast off the old lore and the old way with the old beliefs; nor ever stopped to think that the lore and those ways were the sole makers of their present thoughts and judgments, and the sole guides and standards in a meaningless universe without fixed aims or stable points of reference."
"There are vocal qualities peculiar to men, and vocal qualities peculiar to beasts; and it is terrible to hear the one when the source should yield the other."
"Once I sought out a celebrated ethnologist, and amused him with peculiar questions regarding the ancient Philistine legend of Dagon, the Fish-God; but soon perceiving that he was hopelessly conventional, I did not press my inquiries."
"life, matter, and vitality, as the earth knows such things, are not necessarily constant; and that time and space do not exist as our waking selves comprehend them. Sometimes I believe that this less material life is our truer life, and that our vain presence on the terraqueous globe is itself the secondary or merely virtual phenomenon."
"There were nauseous musical instruments, stringed, grass, and wood-wind, on which St. John and I sometimes produced dissonances of exquisite morbidity and cacodaemoniacal ghastliness..."
"Hei! Aa-shanta 'nygh! You are off! Send back earth's gods to their haunts on unknown Kadath, and pray to all space that you may never meet me in my thousand other forms. Farewell, Randolph Carter, and beware; for I am Nyarlathotep, the Crawling Chaos."
"Though at times interested in reforms, notably prohibition (I have never tasted alcoholic liquor), I was inclined to be bored by ethical casuistry; since I believed conduct to be a matter of taste and breeding, with virtue, delicacy, and truthfulness as symbols of gentility. Of my word and honour I was inordinately proud, and would permit no reflections to be cast upon them. I thought ethics too obvious and commonplace to be scientifically discussed, and considered philosophy solely in its relation to truth and beauty. I was, and still am, pagan to the core."
"At this horror I sank nearly to the lichened earth, transfixed with a dread not of this nor any world, but only of the mad spaces between the stars."
"Searchers after horror haunt strange, far places. For them are the catacombs of Ptolemais, and the carven mausolea of the nightmare countries. They climb to the moonlit towers of ruined Rhine castles, and falter down black cobwebbed steps beneath the scattered stones of forgotten cities in Asia. The haunted wood and the desolate mountain are their shrines, and they linger around the sinister monoliths on uninhabited islands. But the true epicure in the terrible, to whom a new thrill of unutterable ghastliness is the chief end and justification of existence, esteems most of all the ancient, lonely farmhouses of backwoods New England; for there the dark elements of strength, solitude, grotesqueness, and ignorance combine to form the perfection of the hideous."
"A mountain walked or stumbled."
"Men of broader intellect know that there is no sharp distinction betwixt the real and the unreal; that all things appear as they do only by virtue of the delicate individual physical and mental media through which we are made"
"Poor Old Ones! Scientists to the last -- what had they done that we would not have done in their place? God, what intelligence and persistence! What a facing of the incredible, just as those carven kinsmen and forbears had faced things only a little less incredible! Radiates, vegetables, monstrosities, star spawn -- whatever they had been, they were men!"
"He had read much of things as they are, and talked with too many people. Well-meaning philosophers had taught him to look into the logical relations of things, and analyse the processes which shaped his thoughts and fancies. Wonder had gone away, and he had forgotten that all life is only a set of pictures in the brain, among which there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those born of inward dreamings, and no cause to value the one above the other."
"The social prestige of wine at table and at the club must be destroyed through lofty example and polite ridicule; forces which are not always available, and for whose successful operation much time will be required. But the outstanding fact remains, that the world has come to regard liquor in a new and clearer light. Our next generation of poets will contain but few Anacreons, for the thinking element of mankind has robbed the flowing bowl of its fancied virtues and fictitious beauties. The grape, so long permitted to masquerade as the inspirer of wit and art, is now revealed as the mother of ruin and death. The wolf at last stands divested of its sheep's clothing."
"Nothing is so intimately a part of a man as his library. It contains just what the possessor wants to look at most often, and comes to form his window or gateway to the larger cosmos."
"the daemoniac rattle and wheeze of a blasphemous organ, choking and rumbling out the mockeries of hell in a cracked, sardonic bass."
"forests of monsterous overnourished oaks with serpent roots twisting and sucking unnamable juices from an earth verminous with millions of cannible devils; mound like tentacles groping from underground nuclei of polypous perversion...insane lightning over malignant ivied walls and daemon arcades choked with fungous vegetation...Heaven be thanked for the instinct which led me unconscious to places where men dwell; to the peaceful village that slept under the calm stars of clearing skies."
"It is no longer necessary to preach sonorously of the sinful and deleterious effect of liquor on the human mind and body; the essential evil is recognised scientifically, and only the sophistry of conscious immorality remains to be combated. Brewers and distillers still strive clumsily to delude the public by the transparent misstatements of their advertisements, and periodicals of easy conscience still permit these advertisements to disgrace their pages; but the end of such pernicious pretension is not remote. The drinker of yesterday flaunted his voice before all without shame; the average drinker of today must needs resort to excuses."
"Ia! Shub-Niggurath! The Black Goat of the Woods with a Thousand Young!"
"This night shalt thou know the favour of the Gods, and behold on Parnassus those dreams which the Gods have through ages sent to earth to show that they are not dead. For poets are the dreams of Gods, and in each and every age someone hath sung unknowingly the message and the promise from the lotosgardens beyond the sunset."
"Success is a relative thing-and the victory of a boy at marbles is equal to the victory of an Octavius at Actium when measured by the scale of cosmic infinity."
"Life is a hideous thing, and from the background behind what we know of it peer daemoniacal hints of truth which make it sometimes a thousandfold more hideous."
"A horrible coma call'd livingSo now in this coma call'd livingI view the bright phantoms of beauty;The false hollow phantoms of beauty"
"Ocean is more ancient than the mountains, and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time."
"...but of these things I must not now speak. I will tell only of the lone tomb in the darkest of the hillside thickets..."
"And at last I resolved to scale that tower, fall though I might; since it were better to glimpse the sky and perish, than to live without ever beholding day."
"The world is indeed comic but the joke is on mankind." 
"Pleasure to me is wonder the unexplored the unexpected the thing that is hidden and the changeless thing that lurks behind superficial mutability."
"Almost nobody dances sober unless they happen to be insane."
"From even the greatest of horrors irony is seldom absent." 
"The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear and the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown."
"I couldn't live a week without a private library indeed I'd part with all my furniture and squat and sleep on the floor before I'd let go of the 1500 or so books I possess."
"The most merciful thing in the world I think is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents."
"We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of the infinity and it was not meant that we should voyage far."
"That is not dead which can eternal lie and with strange aeons even death may die."
"The most merciful thing in the world I think is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents..."
"some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality and of our frightful position therein that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the light into the peace and safety of a new Dark Age."
"Never Explain Anything"
"To be bitter is to attribute intent and personality to the formless infinite unchanging and unchangeable void. We drift on a chartless resistless sea. Let us sing when we can and forget the rest.."
"Throw a stick and the servile dog wheezes and pants and stumbles to bring it to you."
"Do the same before a cat and he will eye you with coolly polite and somewhat bored amusement."
"And just as inferior people prefer the inferior animal which scampers excitedly because someone else wants something so do superior people respect the superior animal which lives its own life and knows that the puerile stick throwings of alien bipeds are none of its business and beneath its notice."
"The dog barks and begs and tumbles to amuse you when you crack the whip. That pleases a meekness loving peasant who relishes a stimulus to his self importance."
"The cat on the other hand charms you into playing for its benefit when it wishes to be amused making you rush about the room with a paper on a string when it feels like exercise but refusing all your attempts to make it play when it is not in the humour."
"That is personality and individuality and self respect the calm mastery of a being whose life is its own and not yours and the superior person recognises and appreciates this because he too is a free soul whose position is assured and whose only law is his own heritage and aesthetic sense."
"At night when the objective world has slunk back into its cavern and left dreamers to their own there come inspirations and capabilities impossible at any less magical and quiet hour."
"No one knows whether or not he is a writer unless he has tried writing at night."
"If I am mad it is mercy! May the gods pity the man who in his callousness can remain sane to the hideous end!"
"I know always that I am an outsider a stranger in this century and among those who are still men."
"I have seen the dark universe yawning Where the black planets roll without aim Where they roll in their horror unheeded Without knowledge or lustre or name."
"Pleasure to me is wonder the unexplored the unexpected the thing that is hidden and the changeless thing that lurks behind superficial mutability."
"To trace the remote in the immediate the eternal in the ephemeral the past in the present the infinite in the finite these are to me the springs of delight and beauty."
"It is good to be a cynic it is better to be a contented cat and it is best not to exist at all."
"Religion is still useful among the herd that it helps their orderly conduct as nothing else could."
"The crude human animal is in eradicably superstitious, and there is every biological reason why they should be." 
"Take away his Christian god and saints and he will worship something else..."
"Creative minds are uneven and the best of fabrics have their dull spots."
"I never ask a man what his business is for it never interests me. What I ask him about are his thoughts and dreams."
"There are not many persons who know what wonders are opened to them in the stories and visions of their youth for when as children we learn and dream we think but half formed thoughts and when as men we try to remember we are dulled and prosaic with the poison of life."
"But some of us awake in the night with strange phantasms of enchanted hills and gardens of fountains that sing in the sun of golden cliffs overhanging murmuring seas of plains that stretch down to sleeping cities of bronze and stone and of shadowy companies of heroes that ride caparisoned white horses along the edges of thick forests and then we know that we have looked back through the ivory gates into that world of wonder which was ours before we were wise and unhappy."
"Contrary to what you may assume I am not a pessimist but an indifferentist that is I don't make the mistake of thinking that the... cosmos... gives a damn one way or the other about the especial wants and ultimate welfare of mosquitoes rats lice dogs men horses pterodactyls trees fungi dodos or other forms of biological energy."
"We all know that any emotional bias irrespective of truth or falsity can be implanted by suggestion in the emotions of the young hence the inherited traditions of an orthodox community are absolutely without evidential value.... If religion were true its followers would not try to bludgeon their young into an artificial conformity but would merely insist on their unbending quest for truth irrespective of artificial backgrounds or practical consequences."
"With such an honest and inflexible openness to evidence they could not fail to receive any real truth which might be manifesting itself around them."
"The fact that religionists do not follow this honourable course but cheat at their game by invoking juvenile quasi hypnosis is enough to destroy their pretensions in my eyes even if their absurdity were not manifest in every other direction."
"In his house at R'lyeh, dead Cthulu waits dreaming"
"Ultimate horror often paralyses memory in a merciful way."
"Searchers after horror haunt strange, far places."
"The oldest and strongest emotion of mankind is fear."
"The appeal of the spectrally macabre is generally narrow because it demands from the reader a certain degree of imagination and a capacity for detachment from everyday life."
"The Old Ones were the Old Ones are and the Old Ones shall be. Not in the spaces we know but between them. They walk serene and primal undimensioned and to us unseen."
"The most merciful thing in the world I think is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents."
"We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity and it was not meant that we should voyage far."
"The sciences each straining in its own direction have hitherto harmed us little but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality and of our frightful position therein that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the light into the peace and safety of a new dark age."
"Unhappy is he to whom the memories of childhood bring only fear and sadness."
"We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity and it was not meant that we should voyage far."
"The sciences each straining in its own direction have hitherto harmed us little but some day the piecing together of dissociated knowledge will open up such terrifying vistas of reality and of our frightful position therein that we shall either go mad from the revelation or flee from the deadly light into the peace and safety of a new dark age."
"All life is only a set of pictures in the brain among which there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those born of inward dreamings and no cause to value the one above the other."
"Through all this horror my cat stalked unperturbed. Once I saw him monstrously perched atop a mountain of bones and wondered at the secrets that might lie behind his yellow eyes."
"As for the Republicans how can one regard seriously a frightened greedy nostalgic huddle of tradesmen and lucky idlers who shut their eyes to history and science steel their emotions against decent human sympathy cling to sordid and provincial ideals exalting sheer acquisitiveness and condoning artificial hardship for the non materially shrewd dwell smugly and sentimentally in a distorted dream cosmos of outmoded phrases and principles and attitudes based on the bygone agricultural-handicraft world and revel in consciously or unconsciously mendacious assumptions such as the notion that real liberty is synonymous with the single detail of unrestricted economic license or that a rational planning of resource-distribution would contravene some vague and mystical 'American heritage'... utterly contrary to fact and without the slightest foundation in human experience"
"Intellectually the Republican idea deserves the tolerance and respect one gives to the dead."
"For I have always been a seeker, a dreamer, and a ponderer on seeking and dreaming..."
"Blue, green, grey, white, or black; smooth, ruffled, or mountainous; that ocean is not silent."
"Memories and possibilities are even more hideous than realities."
"There are horrors beyond life's edge that we do not suspect, and once in a while man's evil prying calls them just within our range."
"All I say is that I think it is damned unlikely that anything like a central cosmic will, a spirit world, or an eternal survival of personality exist. They are the most preposterous and unjustified of all the guesses which can be made about the universe, and I am not enough of a hair-splitter to pretend that I don't regard them as arrant and negligible moonshine. In theory I am an agnostic, but pending the appearance of radical evidence I must be classed, practically and provisionally, as an atheist."
"I am so beastly tired of mankind and the world that nothing can interest me unless it contains a couple of murders on each page or deals with the horrors unnameable and unaccountable that leer down from the external universes."
"Bunch together a group of people deliberately chosen for strong religious feelings, and you have a practical guarantee of dark morbidities expressed in crime, perversion, and insanity."
"I could not help feeling that they were evil things -- mountains of madness whose farther slopes looked out over some accursed ultimate abyss."
"incurable lover of the grotesque"
"I felt myself on the edge of the world; peering over the rim into a fathomless chaos of eternal night."
"I have harnessed the shadows that stride from world to world to sow death and madness."
"A serious adult story must be true to something in life. Since marvel tales cannot be true to the events of life, they must shift their emphasis towards something to which they can be true; namely, certain wistful or restless moods of the human spirit, wherein it seeks to weave gossamer ladders of escape from the galling tyranny of time, space, and natural law."
"The basis of all true cosmic horror is violation of the order of nature, and the profoundest violations are always the least concrete and describable."
"Only poetry or madness could do justice to the noises..."
"No new horror can be more terrible than the daily torture of the commonplace."
"An isolated person requires correspondence as a means of seeing his ideas as others see them, and thus guarding against the dogmatisms and extravagances of solitary and uncorrected speculation. No man can learn to reason and appraise from a mere perusal of the writing of others. If he live not in the world, where he can observe the public at first hand and be directed toward solid reality by the force of conversation and spoken debate, then he must sharpen his discrimination and regulate his perceptive balance by an equivalent exchange of ideas in epistolary form."
"The most merciful thing in the world... is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents."
"I expect nothing of man, and disown the race. The only folly is expecting what is never attained; man is most contemptible when compared with his own pretensions. It is better to laugh at man from outside the universe, than to weep for him within."
"That's because only a real artist knows the actual anatomy of the terrible or the physiology of fear - the exact sort of lines and proportions that connect up with latent instincts or hereditary memories of fright, and the proper colour contrasts and lighting effects to stir the dormant sense of strangeness."
"I have dwelt ever in realms apart from the visible world; spending my youth and adolescence in ancient and little-known books, and in roaming the fields and groves of the region near my ancestral home. I do not think that what I read in these books or saw in these fields and groves was exactly what other boys read and saw there; but of this I must say little, since detailed speech would but confirm those cruel slanders upon my intellect which I sometimes overhear from the whispers of the stealthy attendants around me."
"Now all my tales are based on the fundemental premise that common human laws and interests and emotions have no validity or significance in the vast cosmos-at-large.... To achieve the essence of real externality, whether of time or space or dimension, one must forget that such things as organic life, good and evil, love and hate, and all such local attributes of a negligible and temporary race called mankind, have any existence at all."
"I like coffee exceedingly..."
"There came to that room wild streams of violet midnight glittering with dust of gold, vortices of dust and fire, swirling out of the ultimate spaces and heavy perfumes from beyond the worlds. Opiate oceans poured there, litten by suns that the eye may never behold and having in their whirlpools strange dolphins and sea-nymphs of unrememberable depths. Noiseless infinity eddied around the dreamer and wafted him away without touching the body that leaned stiffly from the lonely window; and for days not counted in men's calandars the tides of far spheres that bore him gently to join the course of other cycles that tenderly left him sleeping on a green sunrise shore, a green shore fragrant with lotus blossums and starred by red camalates..."
"I could not help feeling that they were evil things-- mountains of madness whose farther slopes looked out over some accursed ultimate abyss. That seething , half-luminous cloud-background held ineffable suggestions of a vague, ethereal beyondness far more than terrestrially spatial; and gave appalling reminders of the utter remoteness, separateness, desolation, and aeon-long death of this untrodden and unfathomed austral world."
"It was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came, and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to compare notes."
"Yog-Sothoth knows the gate. Yog-Sothoth is the gate. Yog-Sothoth is the key and guardian of the gate. Past, present, future, all are one in Yog-Sothoth. He knows where the Old Ones broke through of old, and where They shall break through again. He knows where They have trod earth's fields, and where They still tread them, and why no one can behold Them as They tread."
"Who knows the end? What has risen may sink, and what has sunk may rise. Loathsomeness waits and dreams in the deep, and decay spreads over the tottering cities of men."
"The one test of the really weird (story) is simply this--whether or not there be excited in the reader a profound sense of dread, and of contact with unknown spheres and powers; a subtle attitude of awed listening, as if for the beating of black wings or the scratching of outside shapes and entities on the known universe's utmost rim."
"There are black zones of shadow close to our daily paths, and now and then some evil soul breaks a passage through. When that happens, the man who knows must strike before reckoning the consequences."
"Ia! Ia! Cthulhu fhtagn!"
"It is true that I have sent six bullets through the head of my best friend, and yet I hope to show by this statement that I am not his murderer."
"The end is near. I hear a noise at the door, as of some immense slippery body lumbering against it. It shall not find me. God, that hand! The window! The window!"
"Sometimes I believe that this less material life is our truer life, and that our vain presence on the terraqueous globe is itself the secondary or merely virtual phenomenon."
"I am a student of life, and don't want to miss any experience. There's poetry in this sort of thing, you know--or perhaps you don't know, but it's all the same."
"I have looked upon all the universe has to hold of horror, and even the skies of spring and flowers of summer must ever afterward be poison to me."
"I am, indeed, an absolute materialist so far as actual belief goes; with not a shred of credence in any form of supernaturalism\97religion, spiritualism, transcendentalism, metempsychosis, or immortality."
"Any magazine-cover hack can splash paint around wildly and call it a nightmare, or a witches sabbath or a portrait of the devil; but only a great painter can make such a thing really scare or ring true. That's because only a real artist knows the anatomy of the terrible, or the physiology of fear."
"Something was creeping and creeping and waiting to be seen and felt and heard."
"In relating the circumstances which have led to my confinement within this refuge for the demented, I am aware that my present position will create a natural doubt of the authenticity of my narrative."
"Sometimes one feels that it would be merciful to tear down these houses, for they must often dream."
"What do we know, he had said, of the world and the universe about us? Our means of receiving impressions are absurdly few, and our notions of surrounding objects infinitely narrow. We see things only as we are constructed to see them, and can gain no idea of their absolute nature. With five feeble senses we pretend to comprehend the boundlessly complex cosmos, yet other beings with a wider, stronger, or different range of senses might not only see very differently the things we see, but might see and study whole worlds of matter, energy, and life which lie close at hand yet can never be detected with the senses we have. I have always believed that such strange, inaccessible worlds exist at our very elbows, and now I believe I have found a way to break down the barriers."
"Non- Euclidean calculus and quantum physics are enough to stretch any brain; and when one mixes them with folklore, and tries to trace a strange background of multi-dimensional reality behind the ghoulish hints of Gothic tales and the wild whispers of the chimney-corner, one can hardly expect to be wholly free from mental tension."
"It is absolutely necessary, for the peace and safety of mankind, that some of earth's dark, dead corners and unplumbed depths be left alone; lest sleeping abnormalities wake to resurgent life, and blasphemously surviving nightmares squirm and splash out of their black lairs to newer and wider conquests."
"For although nepenthe has calmed me, I know always that I am an outsider; a stranger in this century and among those who are still men. This I have known ever since I stretched out my fingers to the abomination within that great gilded frame; stretched out my fingers and touched a cold and unyielding surface of polished glass."
"He had read much of things as they are, and talked with too many people. Well-meaning philosophers had taught him to look into the logical relations of things, and analyse the processes which shaped his thoughts and fancies. Wonder had gone away, and he had forgotten that all life is only a set of pictures in the brain, among which there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those born of inward dreamings, and no cause to value the one above the other. Custom had dinned into his ears a superstitious reverence for that which tangibly and physically exists, and had made him secretly ashamed to dwell in visions. Wise men told him his simple fancies were inane and childish, and even more absurd because their actors persist in fancying them full of meaning and purpose as the blind cosmos grinds aimlessly on from nothing to something and from something back to nothing again, neither heeding nor knowing the wishes or existence of the minds that flicker for a second now and then in the darkness"
"But more wonderful than the lore of old men and the lore of books is the secret lore of ocean. Blue, green, grey, white, or black; smooth, ruffled, or mountainous; that ocean is not silent. All my days have I watched it and listened to it, and I know it well. At first it told to me only the plain little tales of calm beaches and near ports, but with the years it grew more friendly and spoke of other things; of things more strange and more distant in space and in time. Sometimes at twilight the grey vapours of the horizon have parted to grant me glimpses of the ways beyond; and sometimes at night the deep waters of the sea have grown clear and phosphorescent, to grant me glimpses of the ways beneath. And these glimpses have been as often of the ways that were and the ways that might be, as of the ways that are; for ocean is more ancient than the mountains, and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time."
"I am writing this under an appreciable mental strain, since by tonight I shall be no more. Penniless, and at the end of my supply of the drug which alone makes life endurable, I can bear the torture no longer; and shall cast myself from this garret window into the squalid street below."
"It was just a colour out of space\97a frightful messenger from unformed realms of infinity beyond all Nature as we know it; from realms whose mere existence stuns the brain and numbs us with the black extra-cosmic gulfs it throws open before our frenzied eyes."
"There was really nothing for serious men to do in cases of wild gossip, for superstitious rustics will say and believe anything."
"The sea can bind us to her many moods, whispering to us by the subtle token of a shadow or a gleam upon the waves, and hinting in these ways of her mournfulness or rejoicing. Always she is remembering old things, and these memories, though we may not grasp them, are imparted to us, so that we share her gaiety or remorse."
"Science, already oppressive with its shocking revelations, will perhaps be the ultimate exterminator of our human species - if separate species we be - for its reserve of unguessed horrors could never be borne by mortal brains if loossed upon the world."
"Do not call up that which you cannot put down."
"I am naturally a Nordic \97 a chalk-white, bulky Teuton of the Scandinavian or North-German forests \97 a Viking berserk killer \97 a predatory rover of Hengist and Horsa \97 a conqueror of Celts and mongrels and founders of Empires \97 a son of the thunders and the arctic winds, and brother to the frosts and the auroras \97 a drinker of foemen's blood from new picked skulls \97 a friend of the mountain buzzards and feeder of seacoast vultures \97 a blond beast of eternal snows and frozen oceans \97 a prayer to Odin and Thor and Woden and Alfadur, the raucous shouter of Niffelheim \97 a comrade of the wolves, and rider of nightmares"
"With five feeble senses we pretend to comprehend the boundlessly complex cosmos, yet other beings with wider, stronger, or different range of senses might not only see very differently the things we see, but might see and study whole worlds of matter, energy, and life which lie close at hand yet can never be detected with the senses we have."
"A certain atmosphere of breathless and unexplainable dread of outer, unknown forces must be present; and there must be a hint, expressed with a seriousness and portentousness becoming its subject, of that most terrible conception of the human brain - a malign and particular suspension or defeat of those laws of Nature which are our only safeguard against the assaults of chaos and the daemons of unplumbed space .... Therefore we must judge a weird tale not by the author's intent, or by the mere mechanics of the plot; but by the emotional level which it attains at its least mundane point... The one test of the really weird is simply this - whether or not there be excited in the reader a profound sense of dread, and of contact with unknown spheres and powers; a subtle attitude of awed listening, as if for the beating of black wings or the scratching of outside shapes and entities on the known universe's utmost rim."
"Wonder had gone away, and he had forgotten that life is only a set of pictures in the brain, among which there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those born of inward dreamings, and no cause to value the one above the other."
"Life is a hideous thing, and from the background behind what we know of it peer daemoniacal hints of truth which make it sometimes a thousandfold more hideous. Science, already oppressive with its shocking revelations, will perhaps be the ultimate exterminator of our human species\97if separate species we be\97for its reserve of unguessed horrors could never be borne by mortal brains if loosed upon the world."
"While my chosen form of story-writing is obviously a special and perhaps a narrow one, it is none the less a persistent and permanent type of expression, as old as literature itself. There will always be a certain small percentage of persons who feel a burning curiosity about unknown outer space, and a burning desire to escape from the prison-house of the known and the real into those enchanted lands of incredible adventure and infinite possibilities which dreams open up to us, and which things like deep woods, fantastic urban towers, and flaming sunsets momentarily suggest."
"Something like fear chilled me as I sat there in the small hours alone-I say alone, for one who sits by a sleeper is indeed alone; perhaps more alone than he can realise."
"I was nearly unnerved at my proximity to a nameless thing at the bottom of a pit."
"Wise men told him his simple fancies were inane and childish, and even more absurd because their actors persist in fancying them full of meaning and purpose as the blind cosmos grinds aimlessly on from nothing to something and from something back to nothing again, neither heeding nor knowing the wishes or existence of the minds that flicker for a second now and then in the darkness."
"On many occasions the curious atmospheric effects enchanted me vastly; these including a strikingly vivid mirage - the first I had ever seen - in which distant bergs became the battlements of unimaginable cosmic castles."
"Unhappy is he to whom the memories of childhood bring only fear and sadness. Wretched is he who looks back upon lone hours in vast and dismal chambers with brown hangings and maddening rows of antique books, or upon awed watches in twilight groves of grotesque, gigantic, and vine-encumbered trees that silently wave twisted branches far aloft. Such a lot the gods gave to me - to me, the dazed, the disappointed; the barren, the broken. And yet I am strangely content and cling desperately to those sere memories, when my mind momentarily threatens to reach beyond to the other."
"The Man of Truth has learned that Illusion is the One Reality, and that Substance is the Great Impostor."
"I have seen beyond the bounds of infinity and drawn down daemons from the stars. . . . I have harnessed the shadows that stride from world to world to sow death and madness. . . ."
"It is new, indeed, for I made it last night in a dream of strange cities; and dreams are older than brooding Tyre, or the contemplative Sphinx, or garden-girdled Babylon."
"It lumbered slobberingly into sight and gropingly squeezed Its gelatinous green immensity through the black doorway into the tainted outside air of that poison city of madness. \85 The Thing cannot be described\97there is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy, such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order."
"And where Nyarlathotep went, rest vanished, for the small hours were rent with the screams of nightmare."
"When Randolph Carter was thirty he lost the key of the gate of dreams."
"When the stars were right, They could plunge from world to world through the sky; but when the stars were wrong, They could not live."
"In youth he had felt the hidden beauty and ecstasy of things, and had been a poet; but poverty and sorrow and exile had turned his gaze in darker directions, and he had thrilled at the imputations of evil in the world around. Daily life had for him come to be a phantasmagoria of macabre shadow-studies; now glittering and leering with concealed rottenness as in Beardsley's best manner, now hinting terrors behind the commonest shapes and objects as in the subtler and less obvious work of Gustave Dore. He would often regard it as merciful that most persons of high Intelligence jeer at the inmost mysteries; for, he argued, if superior minds were ever placed in fullest contact with the secrets preserved by ancient and lowly cults, the resultant abnormalities would soon not only wreck the world, but threaten the very integrity of the universe. All this reflection was no doubt morbid, but keen logic and a deep sense of humour ably offset it. Malone was satisfied to let his notions remain as half-spied and forbidden visions to be lightly played with; and hysteria came only when duty flung him into a hell of revelation too sudden and insidious to escape."
"The appeal of the spectrally macabre is generally narrow because it demands from the reader a certain degree of imagination and a capacity for detachment from everyday life. Relatively few are free enough from the spell of the daily routine to respond to tappings from outside, and tales of ordinary feelings and events, or of common sentimental distortions of such feelings and events, will always take first place in the taste of the majority; rightly, perhaps, since of course these ordinary matters make up the greater part of human experience."
"If we knew what we are, we should do as Sir Arthur Jermyn did; and Arthur Jermyn soaked himself in oil and set first to his clothing one night."
"I'll tell you something of the forbidden horrors she led me into - something of the age-old horrors that even now are festering in out-of-the-way corners with a few monstrous priests to keep them alive. Some people know things about the universe that nobody ought to know, and can do things that nobody ought to be able to do."
"But the ship swept on, and the dusk hushed the hum of the day, and the first stars above blinked answers to the early fireflies on the banks as that jungle fell far behind, leaving only its fragrance as a memory that it had been."
"Fear best lends itself to the creation of Nature-defying illusions."
"The dog appeals to cheap and facile emotions; the cat to the deepest founts of imagination and cosmic perception in the human mind. It is no accident that the contemplative Egyptians, together with such later poetic spirits as Poe, Gautier, Baudelaire, and Swinburne, were all sincere worshippers of the supple grimalkin."
"Children will always be afraid of the dark, and men with minds sensitive to hereditary impulse will always tremble at the thought of the hidden and fathomless worlds of strange life which may pulsate in the gulfs beyond the stars, or press hideously upon our own globe in unholy dimensions which only the dead and the moonstruck can glimpse."
"Well did the traveler know those garden lands that lie betwixt the wood of the Cerenerian Sea, and blithely did he follow the singing river Oukranos that marked his course. The sun rose higher over gentle slopes of grove and lawn, and heightened the colors of the thousand flowers that starred each knoll and dangle. A blessed haze lies upon all this region, wherein is held a little more of the sunlight than other places hold, and a little more of the summer's humming music of birds and bees; so that men walk through it as through a faery place, and feel greater joy and wonder than they ever afterward remember."
"My searchlight expired, but still I ran. I heard voices, and yowls, and echoes, but above all there gently rose that impious, insidious scurrying, gently rising, rising as a stiff bloated corpse gently rises above an oily river that flows under endless onyx bridges to a black putrid sea. Something bumped into me - something soft and plump. It must have been the rats; the viscous, gelatinous, ravenous army that feast on the dead and the living..."
"Atmosphere, not action, is the great desideratum of weird fiction. Indeed, all that a wonder story can ever be is a vivid picture of a certain type of human mood. The moment it tries to be anything else it becomes cheap, puerile, and unconvincing. Prime emphasis should be given to subtle suggestion - imperceptible hints and touches of selective associative detail which express shadings of mood and build up a vague illusion of the strange reality of the unreal. Avoid bald catalogues of incredible happenings which can have no substance or meaning apart from a sustaining cloud of colour and symbolism."
"But are not the dreams of poets and the tales of travellers notoriously false?"
"Shreiking, slithering, torrential shadows of red viscous madness chasing one another through endless, ensanguinated condors of purple fulgurous sky... formless phantasms and kalaidoscopic mutations of a ghoulish, remembered scene; forests of monstrous over-nourished oaks with serpent roots twisting and sucking unnamable juices from an earth verminous with millions of cannibal devils; mound-like tentacles groping from underground nuclei of polypous perversion... insane lightning over malignant ivied walls and demon arcades choked with fungous vegetation..."
"Certainly, the terror of a deserted house swells in geometrical rather than arithmetical progression as houses multiply to form a city of stark desolation. The sight of such endless avenues of fishy-eyed vacancy and death, and the thought of such linked infinities of black, brooding compartments given over to cob-webs and memories and the conqueror worm, start up vestigial fears and aversions that not even the stoutest philosophy can disperse."
"In search of Truth the hopeful zealot goes, But all the sadder tums, the more he knows!"
"Whilst never actually rebuffing a visitor, he always reared such a wall of reserve that few could think of anything to say to him which would not sound inane."
"With hidden powers of unknown extent apparently at his disposal, Curwen was not a man who could safely be warned to leave town."
"The Thing cannot be described - there is no language for such abysms of shrieking and immemorial lunacy, such eldritch contradictions of all matter, force, and cosmic order. A mountain walked or stumbled. If I say that my somewhat extravagant imagination yielded simultaneous pictures of an octopus, a dragon, and a human caricature, I shall not be unfaithful to the spirit of the thing. A pulpy, tentacled head surmounted a grotesque and scaly body with rudimentary wings; but it was the general outline of the whole which made it most shockingly frightful."
"A dog is a pitiful thing, depending wholly on companionship, and utterly lost except in packs or by the side of his master. Leave him alone and he does not know what to do except bark and howl and trot about till sheer exhaustion forces him to sleep. A cat, however, is never without the potentialities of contentment. Like a superior man, he knows how to be alone and happy. Once he looks about and finds no one to amuse him, he settles down to the task of amusing himself; and no one really knows cats without having occasionally peeked stealthily at some lively and well-balanced kitten which believes itself to be alone."
"It is not a true civilization, and has nothing in it to satisfy a mature and fully developed human mind. It is attuned to the mentality of the galley-slave and the moron, and crushes relentlessly with disapproval, ridicule, and economic annihilation any sign of actually independent thought and civilised feeling whith chances to rise above its sodden level. It is a treadmill, squirrel-trap culture \96 drugged and frenzied with the hashish of industrial servitude and material luxury. It is wholly a material body-culture, and its symbol is the tiled bathroom and steam radiator rather than the Doric portico and the temple of philosophy. Its denizens do not live or know how to live."
"I have an odd craving to whisper about those few frightful hours in that ill-rumoured and evilly shadowed seaport of death and blasphemous abnormality."
"Would to Heaven we had never approached them at all, but had run back at top speed out of that blasphemous tunnel with the greasily smooth floors and the degenerate murals aping and mocking the things they had superseded-run back, before we had seen what we did see, and before our minds were burned with something which will never let us breathe easily again!"
"One can trace the relics of this former happiness in the trim shapes of the buildings, the occasional graceful churches, and the evidences of original art and background in bits of detail here and there - a worn flight of steps, a wormy pair of decorative columns of pilasters, or a fragment of once green space with bent and rusted iron railing."
"So through endless twilights I dreamed and waited, though I knew not what I waited for. Then in the shadowy solitude my longing for light grew so frantic that I could rest no more, and I lifted entreating hands to the single black ruined tower that reached above the forest into the unknown outer sky. And at last I resolved to scale that tower, fall through I might; since it were better to glimpse the sky and perish, than to live without even beholding day."
"That is what they say I said when they found me in the blackness after three hours; found me crouching in the blackness over the plump, half-eaten body of Capt. Norrys, with my own cat leaping and tearing at my throat....When I speak of poor Norrys they accuse me of a hideous thing, but they must know that I did not do it. They must know it was the rats; the slithering, scurrying rats whose scampering will never let me sleep; the daemon rats that race behind the padding in this room and beckon me down to greater horrors than I have ever known; the rats they can never hear; the rats, the rats in the walls."
"No death, no doom, no anguish can arouse the surpassing despair which flows from a loss of identity."
"Who are we to combat poisons older than history and mankind?"
"I had evoked - and the book was indeed all I had suspected."
"The cat is such a perfect symbol of beauty and superiority that it seems scarcely possible for any true aesthete and civilised cynic to do other than worship it."
"I could tell I was at the gateway of a region half-bewitched through the piling-up of unbroken time-accumulations; a region where old, strange things have had a chance to grow and linger because they have never been stirred up."
"Memory sometimes makes merciful deletions."
"In that shrieking the inmost soul of human fear and agony clawed hopelessly and insanely at the ebony gates of oblivion."
"We shall dive down through black abysses...and in that lair of the Deep Ones we shall dwell amidst wonder and glory forever."
"And, most vivid of all, there was the dramatic epic of the rats - the scampering army of obscene vermin which had burst forth from the castle three months after the tragedy that doomed it to desertion - the lean, filthy, ravenous army which had swept all before it and devoured fowl, cats, dogs, hogs, sheep, and even two hapless human beings before its fury was spent."
"Damn it, it wasn\92t quite fresh enough!"
"That Crawford Tilinghast should ever have studied science and philosophy was a mistake. These things should be left to the frigid and impersonal investigator for they offer two equally tragic alternatives to the man of feeling and action; despair, if he fail in his quest, and terrors unutterable and unimaginable if he succeed."
"Sounds\97possibly musical\97heard in the night from other worlds or realms of being."
"Many would have disliked to live, if possessed of the peculiar features of Arthur Jermyn, but he had been a poet and a scholar and had not minded."
"The cat . . . is for the man who appreciates beauty as the one living force in a blind and purposeless universe."
"Wise men have interpreted dreams, and the gods have laughed."
"The Lurking Fear: Shrieking, slithering, torrential shadows of red viscous madness chasing one another through endless, ensanguined condors of purple fulgurous sky... formless phantasms and kaleidoscopic mutations of a ghoulish, remembered scene; forests of monstrous over-nourished oaks with serpent roots twisting and sucking unnamable juices from an earth verminous with millions of cannibal devils; mound-like tentacles groping from underground nuclei of polypous perversion... insane lightning over malignant ivied walls and demon arcades choked with fungous vegetation... Heaven be thanked for the instinct which led me unconscious to places where men dwell; to the peaceful village that slept under the calm stars of clearing skies."
"It might, too, have been the singular cold that alienated me; for such chilliness was abnormal on so hot a day, and the abnormal always excites aversion, distrust, and fear."
"Down through this verdant land Carter walked at evening, and saw twilight float up from the river to the marvelous golden spires of Thran. And just at the hour of dusk he came to the southern gate, and was stopped by a red-robed sentry till he had told three dreams beyond belief, and proved himself a dreamer worthy to walk up Thran's steep mysterious streets and linger in the bazaars where the wares of the ornate galleons were sold."
"Then into that incredible city he walked; through a wall so thick that the gate was a tunnel, and thereafter amidst curved and undulant ways winding deep and narrow between the heavenward towers. Lights shone through grated and balconied windows, and, the sound of lutes and pipes stole timid from inner courts where marble fountains bubbled. Carter knew his way, and edged down through darker streets to the river, where at an old sea tavern he found the captains and seamen he had known in myriad other dreams. There he bought his passage to Celephais on a great green galleon, and there he stopped for the night after speaking gravely to the venerable cat of that inn, who blinked dozing before an enormous hearth and dreamed of old wars and forgotten gods."
"He talked about terrible meetings in lonely places, of cyclopean ruins in the heart of the Maine woods beneath which vast staircases led down to abysses of nighted secrets, of complex angles that led through invisible walls to other regions of space and time, and of hideous exchanges of personality that permitted explorations in remote and forbidden places, on other worlds, and in different space-time continua."
"For the things in the chair, perfect to the last, subtle detail of microscopic resemblance - or identity - were the face and hands of Henry Wentworth Akeley."
"We might have known from the first that human curiosity is undying, and that the results we announced would be enough to spear others ahead on the same age-long pursuit of the unknown."
"I am writing this under an appreciable mental strain, since by tonight I shall be no more. Penniless, and at the end of my supply of the drug which alone makes life endurable, I can bear the torture no longer; and shall cast myself from this garret window into the squalid street below. Do not think from my slavery to morphine that I am a weakling or a degenerate. When you have read these hastily scrawled pages you may guess, though never fully realize, why it is that I must have forgetfulness or death."
"How little does the earth self know life and its extent! How little, indeed, ought it to know for its own tranquility!"
"The Silver Key: In the first days of his bondage he had turned to the gentle churchly faith endeared to him by the naive trust of his fathers, for thence stretched mystic avenues which seemed to promise escape from life."
"Only on closer view did he mark the starved fancy and beauty, the stale and prosy triteness, and the owlish gravity and grotesque claims of solid truth which reigned bore somely and overwhelmingly among most of its professors"
"or feel to the full the awkwardness with which it sought to keep alive as literal fact the outgrown fears and guesses of a primal race confronting"
"Outside, across the putrid moat and under the dark mute trees, I would often lie and dream for hours about what I read in the books; and would longingly picture myself amidst gay crowds in the sunny world beyond the endless forests."
"I neither knew nor cared whether my experience was insanity, dreaming, or magic; but was determined to gaze on brilliance and gaiety at any cost."
"To say that we actually believed in vampires or werewolves would be a carelessly inclusive statement. Rather must it be said that we were not prepared to deny the possibility of certain unfamiliar and unclassified modifications of vital force and attenuated matter; existing very infrequently in three-dimensional space because of its more intimate connexion with other spatial units, yet close enough to the boundary of our own to furnish us occasional manifestations which we, for lack of a proper vantage-point, may never hope to understand."
"This time I did not have to question the source of his snarls and hisses, and of the fear which made him sink his claws into my ankle, unconscious of their effect; for on every side of the chamber the walls were alive with nauseous sound - the verminous slithering of ravenous, gigantic rats."
"Perhaps I should not hope to convey in mere words the unutterable hideousness that can dwell in absolute silence and barren immensity."
"As I shivered and brooded on the casting of that brain-blasting shadow, I knew that I had at last pried out one of earth's supreme horors-one of those nameless blights of outer voids whose faint demon scratchings we sometimes hear on the farthest rim of space, yet from which our own finite vision has given us a merciful immunity."
"For the purpose of securing epithets at once accurate and felicitous, the young author should familiarize himself thoroughly with the general aspect and phenomena of Nature, as well as with the ideas and associations which these things produce in the human mind."
"Have only this consolation--that he was never a fiend or even truly a madman, but only an eager, studious, and curious boy whose love of mystery and of the past was his undoing. He stumbled on things no mortal ought ever to know, and reached back through the years as no one ever should reach; and something came out of those years to engulf him."
"an' when they git ready... I say, when they git... ever hear tell of a shoggoth? 'Hey, d'ye hear me? I tell ye I know what them things be - I seen 'em one mght when... eh-ahhh-ah! e'yahhh... "
"Some of them stole off to those cryptical realms which are known only to cats and which villagers say are on the moon's dark side, whither the cats leap from tall housetops; but one small black kitten crept upstairs and sprang in Carter's lap to purr and play, and curled up near his feet when he lay down at last on the little couch whose pillows were stuffed with fragrant drowsy herbs."
"The cool, lithe, cynical, and unconquered lord of the housetops."
"Now I ride with the mocking and friendly ghouls on the night-wind, and play by day amongst the catacombs of Nephren-Ka in the sealed and unknown valley of Hadoth by the Nile."
"I know that light is not for me, save that of the moon over the rock tombs of Neb, nor any gaiety save the unnamed feasts of Nitokris beneath the Great Pyramid; yet in my new wildness and freedom I almost welcome the bitterness of alienage."
"For although nepenthe has calmed me, I know always that I am an outsider; a stranger in this century and among those who are still men."
"Dark gray, flexible, and infinitely tough. Seven-foot membranous wings of same color, found folded, spread out of furrows between ridges."
"Wing framework tubular or glandular, of lighter gray, with orifices at wing tips. Spread wings have serrated edge."
"Around equator, one at central apex of each of the five vertical, stave-like ridges are five systems of light gray flexible arms or tentacles found tightly folded to torso but expansible to maximum length of over three feet."
"Like arms of primitive crinoid. Single stalks three inches diameter branch after six inches into five substalks, each of which branches after eight inches into small, tapering tentacles or tendrils, giving each stalk a total of twenty-five tentacles."
"At top of torso blunt, bulbous neck of lighter gray, with gill-like suggestions, holds yellowish five-pointed starfish-shaped apparent head covered with three-inch wiry cilia of various prismatic colors."
"Head thick and puffy, about two feet point to point, with three-inch flexible yellowish tubes projecting from each point. Slit in exact center of top probably breathing aperture."
"At end of each tube is spherical expansion where yellowish membrane rolls back on handling to reveal glassy, red-irised globe, evidently an eye."
"Five slightly longer reddish tubes start from inner angles of starfish-shaped head and end in saclike swellings of same color which, upon pressure, open to bell-shaped orifices two inches maximum diameter and lined with sharp, white tooth like projections - probably mouths."
"All these tubes, cilia, and points of starfish head, found folded tightly down; tubes and points clinging to bulbous neck and torso. Flexibility surprising despite vast toughness."
"At bottom of torso, rough but dissimilarly functioning counterparts of head arrangements exist. Bulbous light-gray pseudo-neck, without gill suggestions, holds greenish five-pointed starfish arrangement."
"Tough, muscular arms four feet long and tapering from seven inches diameter at base to about two and five-tenths at point. To each point is attached small end of a greenish five-veined membranous triangle eight inches long and six wide at farther end."
"This is the paddle, fin, or pseudofoot which has made prints in rocks from a thousand million to fifty or sixty million years old. From inner angles of starfish-arrangement project two-foot reddish tubes tapering from three inches diameter at base to one at tip."
"Orifices at tips. All these parts infinitely tough and leathery, but extremely flexible. Four-foot arms with paddles undoubtedly used for locomotion of some sort, marine or otherwise."
"When moved, display suggestions of exaggerated muscularity. As found, all these projections tightly folded over pseudoneck and end of torso, corresponding to projections at other end."
"By noon Carter reached the jasper terraces of Kiran which slope down to the river's edge and bear that temple of loveliness wherein the King of Ilek-Vad comes from his far realm on the twilight sea once a year in a golden palanquin to pray to the god of Oukranos, who sang to him in youth when he dwelt in a cottage by its banks."
"All of jasper is that temple, and covering an acre of ground with its walls and courts, its seven pinnacled towers, and its inner shrine where the river enters through hidden channels and the god sings softly in the night."
"Many times the moon hears strange music as it shines on those courts and terraces and pinnacles, but whether that music be the song of the god or the chant of the cryptical priests, none but the King of Ilek-Vad may say; for only he had entered the temple or seen the priests."
"Now, in the drowsiness of day, that carven and delicate fane was silent, and Carter heard only the murmur of the great stream and the hum of the birds and bees as he walked onward under the enchanted sun."
"I felt the strangling tendrils of a cancerous horror whose roots reached into illimitable pasts and fathomless abysms of the night that broods beyond time."
"Yet when I looked from that highest of all gable windows, looked while the candles sputtered and the insane viol howled with the night-wind, I saw no city spread below, and no friendly lights gleamed from remembered streets, but only the blackness of space illimitable; unimagined space alive with motion and music, and having no semblance of anything on earth. And as I stood there looking in terror, the wind blew out both the candles in that ancient peaked garret, leaving me in savage and impenetrable darkness with chaos and pandemonium before me, and the demon madness of that night-baying viol behind me."
"May the merciful god, if indeed there be such, guard those hours when no power of the will, or drug that the cunning of man devises, can keep me from the chasm of sleep. Death is merciful, for there is no return therefrom, but with him who has come back out of the nethermost chambers of night, haggard and knowing, peace rests nevermore."
"Gradually and mistily it became apparent that the Most Ancient One was holding something\97some object clutched in the outflung folds of his robe as if for the sight, or what answered for sight, of the cloaked Companions. It was a large sphere or apparent sphere of some obscurely iridescent metal, and as the Guide put it forward a low, pervasive half-impression of sound began to rise and fall in intervals which seemed to be rhythmic even though they followed no rhythm of earth. There was a suggestion of chanting\97or what human imagination might interpret as chanting. Presently the quasi-sphere began to grow luminous, and as it gleamed up into a cold, pulsating light of unassignable colour Carter saw that its flickerings conformed to the alien rhythm of the chant. Then all the mitred, sceptre-bearing Shapes on the pedestals commenced a slight, curious swaying in the same inexplicable rhythm, while nimbuses of unclassifiable light\97resembling that of the quasi-sphere\97played round their shrouded heads"
"Whatever universal masterpiece of tomorrow may be wrought from phantasm or terror will owe its acceptance rather to a supreme workmanship than to a sympathetic theme. Yet who shall declare the dark theme a positive handicap? Radiant with beauty, the Cup of the Ptolemies was carven of onyx."
"I passed under an arch out of that region of slabs and columns, and wandered through the open country; sometimes following the visible road, but sometimes leaving it curiously to tread across meadows where only occasional ruins bespoke the ancient presence of a forgotten road."
"Wave after wave of cats poured down from the hill as if a vent into a world of cats had been opened"
"Of the name and abode of this man but little is written, for they were of the waking world only; yet it is said that both were obscure. It is enough to know that he dwelt in a city of high walls where sterile twilight reigned, and that he toiled all day among shadow and turmoil, coming home at evening to a room whose one window opened not on the fields and groves but on a dim court where other windows stared in dull despair."
